[[!template id=faqitem.tmpl
question="Message Buffer settings: Buffer Lines, Persistency Type, what?"
answer="""
In **Preferences** -> **Interface** -> **General** you find various Message
Buffer settings for Smuxi. This settings tell Smuxi where to store received
messages you see in every chat. Each continuous text line in Smuxi is a single
message (line wrapping has no influence).

## Buffer Lines ##

This setting tells Smuxi's *frontend* how many messages a single chat should
retain before the oldest messages get removed once it exceeds that value.

<br />

By default Smuxi shows up to 500 messages per chat before it removes them. If
you increase this value, keep in mind that it will increase the memory usage!

## Engine Buffer Lines ##

This setting tells the Smuxi *frontend* how many messages it should fetch from
the engine when it connects.

<br />

This setting has no real influence to Smuxi in standalone mode (no
smuxi-server). By default Smuxi fetches 100 messages per chat when connecting to
a smuxi-server. If you increase this value, keep in mind that it will increase
the time needed to sync with the smuxi-server.

## Persistency Type ##

This setting controls which backend will be used to store messages.

<br />

By default Smuxi stores all messages in memory (see Volatile).

#### Volatile ####

Originally Smuxi could only keep messages in **memory**, thus many kept messages
means high memory usage. Also if you restart Smuxi all messages will be gone.

#### Persistent ####

This uses the default *persistent* backend, which is/was Persistent Db4o.

#### Persistent (Db4o) ####

This backend uses a object database called Db4o.

<br />

**It is known to have issues with high CPU usage and can crash your Mono
runtime.** We do not recommend to use it. It is in an experimental state and
deprecated in favor of the newer SQLite backend (see below).

#### Persistent (SQLite) ####

This backend stores all message in a SQLite database. It is a preview feature
but has no known issues.

<br />

**Requires: Smuxi 0.12 or later**

## Volatile Buffer Lines ##

This setting tells how many messages should be kept in memory per chat if
_Persistency Type_ was set to _Volatile_

By default Smuxi keeps up to 200 messages per chat before it removes them. If
you increase this value, keep in mind that it will increase the memory usage!

## Persistent Buffer Lines ##

This setting controls how many messages per chat a disk based / persistent
backend should retain before it deletes old messages if _Persistency Type_ was
set to any _Persistent_ option.

By default Smuxi stores up to 50,000 messages per chat before it removes them.
If you increase this value, your memory usage will _not_ increase, but the
amount of space needed in your harddisk.
"""]]
