[[!meta title="Contribute - Smuxi"]]

# Contribute #

Since Smuxi is open-source and free software it is developed by [volunteers][].
Without these volunteers Smuxi wouldn't exist. If you have some spare time and
want to give something back then you can contribute to Smuxi in many different
ways. You don't have to be a programmer and neither need to become one to
contribute!

 [volunteers]: /fame

## Provide Feedback ##

If you run into an issue or miss something that feels important to you and
possibly others then you can help by reporting issues or requesting features
using either Smuxi's issue tracker on [Redmine][] or [GitHub][].

For Redmine you need to create an account [here][new account]. Your account is
not usable right away because the account needs to be approved first (this step
is sadly needed because of the high amount of spam). You don't need to specify
your real name if you don't like, but don't use names that look like you are a
spammer ;). If you prefer to not create an account, you can alternatively create
issues on [GitHub][].

 [GitHub]: https://github.com/meebey/smuxi/issues/
 [redmine]: /issues
 [new account]: /account/register
 [new issue]: /issues/new

## Talk About It ##

You like Smuxi and know people who suffer from bad messaging apps? Do them a
favor and tell them about how Smuxi works for you. They possibly would have a
better messaging experience by using Smuxi. Smuxi is not the right app for
everyone needs of course, but one can only judge this by trying or considering
it at least! So if someone rants about his volatile IRC client, the horrible
Twitter web app or the infamous Facebook web chat, point them to
[[https://smuxi.im]]

## Run Upcoming Versions ##

One important step before a new Smuxi version is released, is to test the new
version before the final release with the release announcement. Why? Assume
newly written code would be released without good testing. This could lead to
nightmares of every software like broken features or even application crashes!
The only way to prevent this is by continuously testing development versions or
at least by testing release candidate before the final release.

If you run into an issue in the new version it is important to report the issue
using Smuxi's bug tracker mentioned in the
*[Provide Feedback](#providefeedback)* section above.

<br/>

*So where do I get release candidates?* Release candidates are usually announced
on the #smuxi @ OFTC IRC channel, [Smuxi planet feed][planet-feed]
([RSS version][planet-feed-rss]) and inside the Smuxi itself in the Smuxi
home chat showing Smuxi news. You can also seek for release candidates in this
[web directory][rcs]. All release candidates have a *~rc* suffix in their
filename.

 [planet-feed]: /tags/planet-feed/
 [planet-feed-rss]: /tags/planet-feed/index.rss
 [rcs]: /jaws/data/files/?C=M;O=D

<br/>

*OK, release candidates are good, but where do I get the still bleeding stuff?*
Daily development builds/snapshots of Smuxi are currently only provided as
source code via Git, binary packages for Debian and Ubuntu or only by request
for Mac OS X and Windows. More details can be found in the
[running from git documentation][running-from-git].

 [running-from-git]: /documentation/running-from-git

## Write Code ##

You knew this was coming! Obviously you can also contribute by writing code.
Smuxi is written in sexy C# and a nice Smuxi hacking how-to can be found over
[here][hacking howto]. For inspiration what to hack on, check out the [bug
reports][] and [feature requests][]. [Here][low hanging fruits] you can also
find a list of "low hanging fruits" to get familiar with Smuxi's code base.

 [hacking howto]: /documentation/hacking
 [bug reports]:  /projects/smuxi/issues?set_filter=1&tracker_id=1
 [feature requests]: /projects/smuxi/issues?set_filter=1&tracker_id=2
 [low hanging fruits]: /projects/smuxi/issues?set_filter=1&tracker_id=2&cf_2=low
