[[!meta title="""Smuxi 0.X with XXX, YYY, ZZZ"""]]

And here we go again! We're proud to announce the new version of Smuxi, release
0.X "***Codename***". During the development, [NN bug reports][bugs] and
[NN feature requests][features] in [NN commits][commits] were worked on making
this release a MAJOR_OR_MINOR feature and bugfix release.

Notable highlights in this release are:

### Enhanced User Interface ###

[[!img screenshots/smuxi-0.9-linux-gnome-main-window.png size="400x"
       alt="Screenshot of Smuxi 0.9 on GNOME3"
       title="Smuxi on GNOME3"]]
[[!img screenshots/smuxi-0.9-linux-unity-main-window.png size="400x"
       alt="Screenshot of Smuxi 0.9 on Ubuntu Unity"
       title="Smuxi on Ubuntu Unity"]]

[[!img screenshots/smuxi-0.9-win7-main-window.png size="400x"
       alt="Screenshot of Smuxi 0.9 on Windows 7"
       title="Smuxi on Windows 7"]]
[[!img screenshots/smuxi-0.9-osx-main-window.png size="400x"
       alt="Screenshot of Smuxi 0.9 on Mac OS X"
       title="Smuxi on Mac OS X"]]

[[!img scrVeenshots/smuxi-0.9-linux-stfl-main-window.png size="200x"
       alt="Screenshot of Smuxi 0.9's text frontend" class="screenshot"]]
### Text Frontend Enhancements ###

 * Changes here
 * More changes here
 * And even more changes here

### Message Patterns ###

Everybody knows text can be boring because it is all just text. Nothing can
sidetrack you except reading that bare text. Text often have recurring patterns
that could be used as information to create something useful from it and make
the text more interactive. For example someone writes:

    Hey meebey, do you know RFC2812?

RFCs are a recurring pattern with a distinct number behind it and are real
references to something in the internet (collection of protocol specifications).

So usually I would now fire up a browser tab, copy/paste or typing RFC2812 into
my favorite search engine and click the first hit and then reply to that
question. But with Smuxi's message patterns it turns RFC2812 into a link for
you which you can simple click and it point you to the right document on the
right website.

Wow this is very cool, but isn't this already happening with http URLs and email
addresses? Exactly! Why shouldn't more information be used to create useful
things from it? Smuxi message patterns allow you to define text patterns that
are transformed into clickable links. This can be used for RFCs, CVEs, bug
report numbers (#XXX), git commit hashes and much more, make good use of your
creativity.

By default Smuxi comes with built-in message patterns for:

  * URLs
  * heuristic URLs (not starting with http:// etc)
  * email addresses
  * RFCs
  * CVEs
  * Debian Security Advisories (DSA)
  * Many popular bug trackers (GNU, GCC, kernel, Launchpad, freedesktop,
    GNOME, KDE, Xfce, Debian, Redhat, Novell, Xamarin, openSUSE, Mozilla, Samba,
    SourceForge, CPAN, boost, Claws and Smuxi)

If you know more general patterns useful for others, please [report][]!

  [report]: /issues/new

For a full list of built-in message patterns or how to add your own patterns,
head over to the [message pattern documentation][msg patterns].

### Hooks Enhancements ###

 * A bug was fixed that prevented hooks from issuing more than one command
 * New hook points:
   * engine/session/on-group-chat-person-added
   * engine/session/on-group-chat-person-removed
   * engine/session/on-group-chat-person-updated

### IRC Enhancements ###

 * Changes here
 * More changes here
 * And even more changes here

### XMPP (Beta) Enhancements ###

 * Changes here
 * More changes here
 * And even more changes here

### Twitter Enhancements ###

 * Changes here
 * More changes here
 * And even more changes here

### JabbR (Beta) Enhancements ###

 * Changes here
 * More changes here
 * And even more changes here

### Updated Translations ###

Smuxi should now be in your language, including:

 * Initial complete Dutch (Jeroen Baten)

### Behind the Scenes ###

 * Changes here
 * More changes here
 * And even more changes here

### Contributors ####

Contributors to this release are the following people:

 * Mirco Bauer (193 commits)
 * Oliver Schneider (59 commits)
 * Ondřej Hošek (13 commits, translations)
 * Jason Papakostas (2 commits)
 * Carlos Martín Nieto (1 commit)
 * Andrés G. Aragoneses (1 commit)
 * George Karavasilev (artwork)
 * Leonardo Pires Felix (translations)
 * Kalle Kaitala (translations)
 * Joe Hansen (translations)
 * Jimmie Elvenmark (translations)
 * Dean Lee (translations)
 * Clément Bourgeois (translations)
 * Bianca Mix (translations)

Thank you very much for your contributions to Smuxi!

Want this? Go [here][download page] and grab it right now!

  [download page]: /page/Download
  [roadmap]: /versions/show/
  [bugs]: /projects/smuxi/issues?query_id=4
  [features]: /projects/smuxi/issues?fixed_version_id=19&set_filter=1&tracker_id=2&status_id=c
  [commits]: https://github.com/meebey/smuxi/compare/0.8.11...0.9
  [NNN]: /issues/show/NNN "#NNN: TITLE"
  [msg patterns]: /documentation/message-patterns
