[[!meta title="""Smuxi 0.9 with Twitter v1.1, JabbR Support and XMPP rewrite"""]]

And here we go again! We're proud to announce the new version of Smuxi, release
0.9 "***The Fix***". During the development, [19 bug reports][bugs] and
[10 feature requests][features] in [235 commits][commits] were worked on making
this release a major feature and bugfix release.

Notable highlights in this release are:

### Enhanced User Interface ###

 * Smuxi Symbolic Icon Theme for Windows and Mac OS X (George Karavasilev)
 * [Nick Completion][558]: prioritize active nicks for tab completion
   (Ondrej Hošek)
 * [Nicklist][432]: The nicklist automatically resizes to the longest nick.
 * On Mac OS X the [copy/paste command key shortcuts are now working][845]

[[!img screenshots/smuxi-0.9-linux-gnome-main-window.png size="400x"
       alt="Screenshot of Smuxi 0.9 on GNOME3"
       title="Smuxi on GNOME3"]]
[[!img screenshots/smuxi-0.9-linux-unity-main-window.png size="400x"
       alt="Screenshot of Smuxi 0.9 on Ubuntu Unity"
       title="Smuxi on Ubuntu Unity"]]

[[!img screenshots/smuxi-0.9-win7-main-window.png size="400x"
       alt="Screenshot of Smuxi 0.9 on Windows 7"
       title="Smuxi on Windows 7"]]
[[!img screenshots/smuxi-0.9-osx-main-window.png size="400x"
       alt="Screenshot of Smuxi 0.9 on Mac OS X"
       title="Smuxi on Mac OS X"]]

[[!img screenshots/smuxi-0.9-linux-stfl-main-window.png size="200x"
       alt="Screenshot of Smuxi 0.9's text frontend" class="screenshot"]]
### Text Frontend Enhancements ###

 * [Topic Support][844]: channels are now showing the topic (Ondrej Hošek)
 * [Line Wrapping][849]: messages longer than the terminal width are now
   properly wrapped into multiple lines (Ondrej Hošek)
 * Message/Nick Colors: Nick names and also messages are now shown with
   their colors, giving a much improved experience.
 * OpenBSD Support: The STFL frontend now runs on OpenBSD.

[[!img screenshots/smuxi-0.9-linux-gnome-jabbr.png size="200x"
       alt="Screenshot of Smuxi 0.9 with JabbR" class="screenshot"]]
### JabbR Support ###

 * [SignalR's JabbR Support][843]: As if IRC, Twitter, XMPP, and Campfire
   weren't enough Smuxi is now capable of talking with [SignalR][]'s famous
   [JabbR web chat][JabbR]. If you are looking for support for SignalR,
   ASP.NET MVC, NancyFx, EntityFramework, NuGet, RavenDB or just a real modern
   and cool web chat? Then this is the right place for you!
 * Included Features:
   * Join rooms (/join)
   * Listing available rooms (/list)
   * Nickname completion
   * Highlight of own nickname and user defined highlight words
   * Sending/receiving public and private messages

### Twitter Enhancements ###

 * [Twitter v1.1][872]: Twitter removed their v1 API on the 11 June which
   broke Smuxi and many other Twitter applications. Smuxi works with Twitter
   again after updating it to the v1.1 API.

### XMPP (Beta) Enhacenments ###

 * XMPP/Jabber Contacts
   * Contacts can be renamed from the context menu
 * [XMPP Rewrite][819] (Oliver Schneider)
 * Added favicon mappings of famous Jabber servers: jabber.org, jabber.de,
   jabber.at, jabber.ccc.de and jabber.gmx.net

### IRC Enhancements ###

 * [passive channel sync][787]: Smuxi no longer needs to send WHO requests for
   users that join channels. Not only this improves the speed of joining
   channels drastically, this also prevents potential WHO floods when the
   infamous netsplits occur.
 * [UTF-8 recode][288]: Messages containing UTF-8 or your fallback encoding will
   automatically be recoded when needed. (Ondrej Hošek)
 * [channel usermodes][161]: Owner, Half-Op and Admin modes are now supported.
   (Ondrej Hošek)

### Updated Translations ###

Smuxi should now be in your language, including:

 * Initial complete Portuguese (Brazil) (Leonardo Pires Felix)
 * Initial complete Finnish (Kalle Kaitala)
 * French (Clément Bourgeois)
 * Czech (Ondřej Hošek)
 * Chinese Simp (Dean Lee)
 * Swedish (Jimmie Elvenmark)
 * Danish (Joe Hansen)
 * German (Bianca Mix)

### Behind the Scenes ###

 * Mono 3.0 Support: This version builds and runs fine on the latest versions of
   Mono.

### Contributors ####

Contributors to this release are the following people:

 * Mirco Bauer (193 commits)
 * Oliver Schneider (59 commits)
 * Ondřej Hošek (13 commits, translations)
 * Jason Papakostas (2 commits)
 * Carlos Martín Nieto (1 commit)
 * Andrés G. Aragoneses (1 commit)
 * George Karavasilev (artwork)
 * Leonardo Pires Felix (translations)
 * Kalle Kaitala (translations)
 * Joe Hansen (translations)
 * Jimmie Elvenmark (translations)
 * Dean Lee (translations)
 * Clément Bourgeois (translations)
 * Bianca Mix (translations)

Thank you very much for your contributions to Smuxi!

Want this? Go [here][download page] and grab it right now!

  [download page]: /page/Download
  [roadmap]: /versions/show/
  [bugs]: /projects/smuxi/issues?query_id=4
  [features]: /projects/smuxi/issues?fixed_version_id=19&set_filter=1&tracker_id=2&status_id=c
  [commits]: https://github.com/meebey/smuxi/compare/0.8.11...0.9
  [JabbR]: https://jabbr.net/
  [SignalR]: http://signalr.net/
  [558]: /issues/show/558 "#558: prefer last used nicks with tab completion"
  [432]: /issues/show/432 "#432: Fit width of the nicklist automatically (to the longest nick)"
  [845]: /issues/show/845 "#845: OS X Client: Command Key Shortcuts for Copy/Cut/Paste Do Not Work"
  [844]: /issues/show/844 "#844: STFL: display the topic"
  [849]: /issues/show/849 "#849: STFL: correctly wrap text"
  [843]: /issues/show/843 "#843: JabbR Engine"
  [872]: /issues/show/872 "#872: Twitter v1 API was killed, thus v1.1 migration required"
  [819]: /issues/show/819 "#819: Replace jabber-net with agsXMPP"
  [787]: /issues/show/787 "#787: Smuxi needlessly sends a WHO command for each user that joins a channel"
  [288]: /issues/show/288 "#288: automatic character recoding (e.g. latin1 <-> utf8)"
  [161]: /issues/show/161 "#161: Support for flag/icon of half-ops, admins and services in channels"

