[[!meta title="""Smuxi 0.X with XXX, YYY, ZZZ"""]]

And here we go again! We're proud to announce the new version of Smuxi, release
0.X "***Codename***". During the development, [NN bug reports][bugs] and [NN
feature requests][features] in [NN commits][commits] were worked on. Notable
highlights in this release are:

### User Interface Enhancements ###

 * Re-designed preferences GTK3 dialog. This lovely new interface that is simple
   to use and visually pleasing was designed by me4oslav aka Georgi Karavasilev.
   He is known for his great icon and GTK+ theme [Numix][] which I can highly
   recommend if you want a truly beautiful Linux desktop.
 # TODO: ADD SCREENSHOT HERE!!!

 * The heuristic link detection is more reliable with less false-positives by
   using a better strategy to find links and which characters really belong to
   the link. (knocte)
 * Bitcoin addresses and transaction hashes are now a linked to your local
   Bitcoin wallet and a web blockchain explorer.
 * EmojiOne catalog updated to v2.2.7 supporting 2373 emojis.
 * Making preferences changes will no longer block the interface for many
   seconds when using a smuxi-server. The code was optimized to make a single
   call to the backend to push all changes.
 * Message filters can match against NetworkIDs. This is useful if you want to
   filter messages of a channel on a specific IRC network. [#838][] 
 * The activity counters behind the chat name in the chat tree can be hidden
   using [an internal config setting][counter-hide-docs]
  
  
[[!img screenshots/smuxi-0.9-linux-gnome-main-window.png size="400x"
       alt="Screenshot of Smuxi 0.9 on GNOME3"
       title="Smuxi on GNOME3"]]
[[!img screenshots/smuxi-0.9-linux-unity-main-window.png size="400x"
       alt="Screenshot of Smuxi 0.9 on Ubuntu Unity"
       title="Smuxi on Ubuntu Unity"]]

[[!img screenshots/smuxi-0.9-win7-main-window.png size="400x"
       alt="Screenshot of Smuxi 0.9 on Windows 7"
       title="Smuxi on Windows 7"]]
[[!img screenshots/smuxi-0.9-osx-main-window.png size="400x"
       alt="Screenshot of Smuxi 0.9 on Mac OS X"
       title="Smuxi on Mac OS X"]]

[[!img scrVeenshots/smuxi-0.9-linux-stfl-main-window.png size="200x"
       alt="Screenshot of Smuxi 0.9's text frontend" class="screenshot"]]
### Text Frontend Enhancements ###

 * /window list command:
   On small terminals, e.g. SSH clients on mobile phones, the screen may not
   be wide enough to display more than a few tabs. /window list outputs a list
   of all windows and their numbers (for selection via /window number) into the
   current chat window.

 * More changes here
 * And even more changes here

### Server Enhancements ###

The smuxi-server will now start all sessions on startup and no longer waits for
a frontend to connect first. This makes sure you can't miss any messages if your
smuxi-server went down for whatever reason. [#1067][]

### IRC Enhancements ###

 * CertFP support. You can authenticate against NickServ using a certificate
   file. Many modern IRC networks already support CertFP. As CertFP support is
   an internal setting, you need to use the /config command to configure it.
   Documentation of this feature an be found [here][certfp-docs].
 * /oper command added (Ravu)
 * Enhanced IRC proxy/bouncer/gateway support: messages that you sent outside of
   Smuxi will no longer highlight yourself. [#1095][] (knocte)

### XMPP Enhancements ###

 * Removed Facebook as protocol option as it is no longer available since
   Facebook shutdown their XMPP gateway and discontinued the support.
 
### Twitter Enhancements ###

 * Quoted tweets support
 * Tweets have clickable links that open the tweet in the official Twitter web
   client. (knocte)

### JabbR (Beta) Enhancements ###

 * Changes here
 * More changes here
 * And even more changes here

### Updated Translations ###

Smuxi should now be in your language, including:

 * Initial complete LANGUAGE (FULL_NAME)
 * French (Clément Bourgeois)
 * Czech (Ondřej Hošek)
 * Chinese Simp (Dean Lee)
 * Swedish (Jimmie Elvenmark)
 * Danish (Joe Hansen)
 * German (Bianca Mix)

### Behind the Scenes ###

 * Changes here
 * More changes here
 * And even more changes here

### Contributors ####

Contributors to this release are the following people:

 * Mirco Bauer (193 commits)
 * Oliver Schneider (59 commits)
 * Ondřej Hošek (13 commits, translations)
 * Jason Papakostas (2 commits)
 * Carlos Martín Nieto (1 commit)
 * Andrés G. Aragoneses (1 commit)
 * George Karavasilev (artwork)
 * Leonardo Pires Felix (translations)
 * Kalle Kaitala (translations)
 * Joe Hansen (translations)
 * Jimmie Elvenmark (translations)
 * Dean Lee (translations)
 * Clément Bourgeois (translations)
 * Bianca Mix (translations)

Thank you very much for your contributions to Smuxi!

Want this? Go [here][download page] and grab it right now!

  [download page]: /download/
  [roadmap]: /versions/show/
  [bugs]: /projects/smuxi/issues?query_id=4
  [features]: /projects/smuxi/issues?fixed_version_id=19&set_filter=1&tracker_id=2&status_id=c
  [commits]: https://github.com/meebey/smuxi/compare/0.8.11...0.9
  [NNN]: /issues/show/NNN "#NNN: TITLE"
  [Numix]: https://numixproject.github.io/products
  [certfp-docs]: https://github.com/meebey/smuxi/commit/83a2ab1c3e64ef4438b8e901891270f65566ea95
  [counter-hide-docs]: https://github.com/meebey/smuxi/commit/dfacd123b5d6138c7d9614a596111efce280e207

