[[!meta title="""Smuxi 0.6.3 Release"""]]
[[!meta date="2009-01-01 21:31:59"]]

Just in time, with the beginning of 2009 we are proud to announce the release of
Smuxi 0.6.3! This release is the 3rd bugfix release of the 0.6 series but also
contains as usual new features for your joy of upgrading to the new version.

New features:

-   Full tray icon support. (trac\#55 and trac\#137)
-   Configurable line wrapping. (trac\#5)
-   Events such as join/part/quit now use a different color in the tab label.
    (trac\#66)
-   When connecting to a smuxi-server previous highlights will not be
    highlighted again. (trac\#97)
-   Messages can now be sent to all chats by using the /amsg, /anotice and /ame
    commands. (trac\#109)
-   The find group chats feature now indicates an active search by using a busy
    mouse cursor symbol. (trac\#115)
-   Passwords are now hidden by default but can be shown by using a "show
    password" button. (trac\#116)
-   Nicknames can now be listed by using the /names command. (trac\#120)

Bugfixes:

-   Find group chat dialog will no longer freeze the interface when the IRC
    server (e.g. OFTC) uses non-RFC compliant reply codes. (trac\#104)
-   /notice \#somechannel will no longer crash. (trac\#108)
-   A private notice will no longer trigger a highlight. (trac\#45)
-   URLs can now be clicked while a nickname is selected on the userlist.
    (trac\#112)
-   Server no longer crashes when a frontend doesn't cleanly disconnect.
    (trac\#117)
-   Quitting smuxi using the window close button (X) will now store the last
    used window size and position. (trac\#121)
-   Validation now requires a nickname be set in the preferences. (trac\#123)
-   URL matching is now case-insensitive. (trac\#131)
-   /quit command will no longer reconnect. (trac\#139)
-   Username and password are now correctly used in the quick connect dialog.
    (trac\#141)
-   When disconnecting from a server, all chats will now be closed. (trac\#144)

New translations:

-   French translation contributed by Clement BOURGEOIS (trac\#113)
-   Italian translation contributed by David Paleino
-   Spanish translation contributed by Juan Miguel Carrero

As you can see, we have applied lots of love to this release :-D Now head to the
[download page][] and enjoy this great new version!

There are now also packages available for openSUSE (thanks to Andrew Jorgensen)
and [Ubuntu][] (thanks to Stefan Ebner). The [download page][] contains
explanations how to install those.

  [download page]: /page/Download
  [Ubuntu]: http://packages.ubuntu.com/smuxi
