[[!meta title="""Smuxi 0.6.4.1 Release"""]]
[[!meta date="2009-10-15 00:10:19"]]

2 months after releasing Smuxi 0.6.4 I am proud to announce the first bugfix
release, 0.6.4.1 codenamed 'Claire'. This version fixes all bugs that were
reported since the release of 0.6.4.

The most notable change is the optimized nickname color feature which has been
redesigned to select colors which will look good on your screen. The algorithm
is based on the Web Content Accessibility Guidelines published by the W3C. This
feature is now enabled by default for new installs. Existing users are
encouraged to visit the preferences to enable the feature. To assist in tracking
your conversations, nicknames in your replies will now be colored too.

The default font for Windows was changed from Monospace to FixedSys which should
give a much improved experience.

A full list of changes is included below.

**New features:**

-   Feature \#192: Allow adding options to the ssh command.
-   Feature \#199: Use nick-colors for mode changes
-   Feature \#200: Detect nicknames in replies and replace with colors
-   Feature \#202: Include translations in the windows installer
-   Feature \#208: SSH password support for plink
-   Feature \#210: Use better default font on Windows
-   Feature \#193: Include plink.exe in the Windows installer

**Bugfixes:**

-   Bug \#153: Configured tab colors are lost after restart
-   Bug \#189: Font and color settings are not applied to userlist and topic
-   Bug \#194: Clicking an http:// link will crash the application if it fails
    to start the browser
-   Bug \#197: nick colors sometime gives very bad contrast
-   Bug \#203: Day change line is not honoring the local timezone
-   Bug \#204: Highlight gets cleared by regular messages
-   Bug \#206: Topic can trigger highlights
-   Bug \#207: Engine -\> Add Remote Engine is doing nothing
-   Bug \#209: output of /names is unsorted
-   Bug \#190: Hide plink.exe window on Windows
-   Bug \#195: Windows installer thinks GTK\# 2.12.9 is older than 2.12.9

**Updated translations:**

-   German translation

(Smuxi is seeking for translators!)

Smuxi is available for download from [here][].

  [here]: http://www.smuxi.org/page/Download
