[[!meta title="""Smuxi 0.7 Release"""]]
[[!meta date="2010-01-14 01:48:25"]]

I am pleased to announce that Smuxi 0.7 'Bianca' is out NOW! This is the most
exciting release since the initial public release in 2008.

This release contains 4 major highlights in addition to many other enhancements
and fixes: Initial support for Twitter has been implemented. This will allow you
to send and receive tweets to the Twitter microblogging service. It supports the
friends timeline, replies view, and direct messages. The character counter,
Reply-To feature, and avatar support will follow in later releases.

Smuxi is now able to flawlessly handle network connections with high latency
which are common with UMTS, WLAN, and busy DSL and cable lines. All
communication between the Smuxi frontend and the Smuxi server is now done as a
background task using threads. This gives Smuxi a very responsive feel - just
like a normal, locally running application - even with difficult network
conditions

The IRC experience has been significantly improved.  Smuxi will now send all
unrecognized commands transparently to the IRC server and will show the reply
directly to the user. In addition, the userlist and query menu have been
extended to include common CTCP actions.

Smuxi now ensures that the text colors used in the tabs are easily readable,
regardless of your GTK theme.  It does this by using the proven-reliable
color-contrast algorithm used by Smuxi 0.6.4.1 to generate nick colors.

A full list of changes is included below.

**New features:**

-   Feature \#228: Twitter integration
-   Feature \#20: more colors for message types
-   Feature \#259: Split too long IRC messages into smaller messages
-   Feature \#25: Pass unknown commands to protocol manager as fallback.
-   Feature \#29: show away-msg only once per query (David Paleino)
-   Feature \#46: nickname completion on private chat (David Paleino)
-   Feature \#71: Add popup menu to links in the chat/channel window
-   Feature \#146: Please add right-click menu to queries (Clément Bourgeois)
-   Feature \#147: Please add CTCP to on-nick right-click menu (Clément
    Bourgeois)
-   Feature \#225: Use colors with good contrast for tab label
-   Feature \#235: Smuxi Server Manager (Clément Bourgeois)
-   Feature \#236: Process "On Connect Commands" for Quick Connect
-   Feature \#242: Entry Command Queue
-   Feature \#243: SSH tunnel setup needs to check the local forwarding port
-   Feature \#248: stray SSH tunnel checker
-   Feature \#256: Show unknown IRC replies to the user
-   Feature \#258: Optimize SSH on difficult networks
-   Feature \#269: Show CTCP replies on query tabs (Clément Bourgeois)
-   Feature \#270: Find Group Chat should show colored IRC topics (David
    Paleino)
-   Feature \#273: Support context-menu key in user list
-   Feature \#274: Make URLs copyable with a context menu

**Bugfixes:**

-   Bug \#149: Highlights are not always remembered
-   Bug \#183: Leaking FrontendManager threads
-   Bug \#198: Missing dictionary on WIndows
-   Bug \#211: /names command takes ages on big channels
-   Bug \#223: Many beeps when connecting to a smuxi-server on Windows
-   Bug \#224: "Find Group Chat" might block forever
-   Bug \#232: Client throws unhandled exceptions upon network connection loss
    (Windows)
-   Bug \#233: Switching between tabs is not instantaneous on slow connections
    to remote servers
-   Bug \#234: crash on open
-   Bug \#240: excess flood caused by joining many channels at once
-   Bug \#241: Marking topic text (grab-focus kicks in)
-   Bug \#244: Transition remote -\> remote fails with connection refused on
    localhost:7689/SessionManager
-   Bug \#245: Status bar too short short for german language
-   Bug \#246: two remote engines with the same name
-   Bug \#247: Highlight is triggered by self-written messages
-   Bug \#249: /reconnect crashes after failed connect attempt
-   Bug \#250: default IRCnet server entry is wrong
-   Bug \#251: /join is sometimes not doing anything at all
-   Bug \#252: not showing failed attempts when joining a channel
-   Bug \#253: &chans have wrong tab colors
-   Bug \#260: /server command throws exception
-   Bug \#261: Closing a channel tab shows ErrorNotOnChannel
-   Bug \#262: Remote engine connection check might block the GUI
-   Bug \#263: Find group chat should use wildcard by default (David Paleino)
-   Bug \#268: configure.ac error, Twitter engine is controlled by "engine-msnp"
    macro... (David Paleino)
-   Bug \#281: Race condition in PangoTools.ToMarkup (David Paleino)
-   Bug \#283: GroupChatView.cs missing \_Logger protection
-   Bug \#285: Almost all IRC commands might suffer from a race condition

**Big thanks goes to the reviewers of the english messages strings done on
debian-l10n-english @ lists.debian.org:**

-   Justin B Rye
-   Esko Arajärvi

**New translations:**

-   Czech translation (Michal Simunek)
-   Swedish translation (Martin Bagge)
-   Argentinian translation (Damian Kleiman)

**Updated translations:**

-   German translation (Bianca Mix)
-   French translation (Clément Bourgeois)
-   Italian translation (Vincenzo Campanella)
-   British English translation (Ryan Smith-Evans)

Thank you everyone who contributed to this release!

Smuxi is available for download from [here][].

  [here]: /page/Download
