[[!template id=faqitem.tmpl
question="""Why do I get "The authentication or decryption has failed" on Linux?"""
answer="""

You may have issues relating to authentication certificates in Mono resulting in
an error that looks like this:

    Connection failed! Reason: Could not connect to: irc.freenode.net:7070 The authentication or decryption has failed.

Here are some steps you can take to fix this.

Make sure you have the Mono SDK tools:

    sudo apt-get install ca-certificates mono-devel

Next, import Mozilla's root CA certificates by running (do this as the user who
is running smuxi-server, not as root):

    for i in $(shopt -s nullglob; echo /usr/local/share/ca-certificates/*.crt \
        /usr/share/ca-certificates/*/*.crt); do certmgr -add -c Trust $i; done

Grab the "intermediate certificate" for the IRC network you're using.  Example:

    certmgr -ssl https://irc.freenode.net:7070

Even though you may see a _*** WARNING: Certificate signature is INVALID ***_,
this is okay (it is a display bug in Mono's mozroots tool).  Say "y" to import
this certificate into the CA store.

Now, to work around a [certificate store bug in Mono][bxc#23015] ([Mono's fix
here][mono-fix]), create these two directories:

    sudo mkdir -p /usr/share/.mono/keypairs
    sudo mkdir -p /usr/share/.mono/certs

Another known issue are broken or unsupported CA certificates in the store. They
can break the certificate chain validation! Run this commands to see if your
stores are OK or not:

    if certmgr -list -c -m Trust > /dev/null 2>&1; then echo "Your system store seems OK"; else echo "Your system store is BUGGED!"; fi
    if certmgr -list -c Trust > /dev/null 2>&1; then echo "Your user store sems ok"; else echo "Your user store is BUGGED!"; fi

Both commands return OK for you, then you can go ahead.

If the first SSL connect works but every connect after that not, then you'll
need to set an environment variable to keep TLS (the secure connection) from
caching (fore more details see [ticket #802][802]).  That means prepending
*MONO_TLS_SESSION_CACHE_TIMEOUT=0* to the command you use to start Smuxi.  For
example:

    MONO_TLS_SESSION_CACHE_TIMEOUT=0 nohup smuxi-server &

For the standalone Smuxi without a smuxi-server, you would start Smuxi like this:

    MONO_TLS_SESSION_CACHE_TIMEOUT=0 smuxi-frontend-gnome

Hopefully connecting Smuxi with _Use Encryption_ (SSL/TLS) and _Validate Server
Certificate_ works now for you. If you still have issues join #smuxi on OFTC or
Freenode for further assistance (idle there for at least a day so you can read
the reply!).

  [NNN]: /issues/show/NNN "#NNN: TITLE"
  [802]: /issues/show/802 "#802: SSL IRC connections usually only work on the first try (local engine)"
  [bxc#23015]: https://bugzilla.xamarin.com/show_bug.cgi?id=23015
  [mono-fix]: https://github.com/mono/mono/commit/3552179bdafe770787aaa94949077d04aea317f8
"""]]
