[[!meta title="Message Patterns - Smuxi"]]

# Smuxi Message Patterns #

## Intro ##

Everybody knows text can be boring because it is all just text. Nothing can
sidetrack you except reading that bare text. Text often have recurring patterns
that could be used as information to create something useful from and it make
the text more interactive. For example someone writes:

    Hey meebey, do you know RFC2812?

RFCs are a recurring pattern with a distinct number behind it and are real
references to something in the internet (collection of protocol specifictions).

So usually I would now fire up a browser tab, copy/paste or typing RFC2812 into
my favorite search engine and click the first hit and then reply to that
question. But with Smuxi's message patterns it turns RFC2812 into a link for
you which you can simple click and it point you to the right document on the
right website.

Wow this is very cool, but isn't this already happening with http URLs and email
addresses? Exactly! Why shouldn't more information be used to create useful
things from it? Smuxi message patterns allow you to define text patterns that
are transformed into clickable links. This can be used for RFCs, CVEs, bug
report numbers (#XXX), git commit hashes and much more, make good use of your
creativity.

By default Smuxi comes with built-in message patterns for:

  * URLs
  * heuristic URLs (not starting with http:// etc)
  * email addresses
  * RFCs
  * CVEs
  * Debian Security Advisories (DSA)
  * Many popular bug trackers (GNU, GCC, kernel, Launchpad, freedesktop,
    GNOME, KDE, Xfce, Debian, Redhat, Novell, Xamarin, openSUSE, Mozilla, Samba,
    SourceForge, CPAN, boost, Claws and Smuxi)

If you now more general patterns useful for others, please [report][]!

  [report]: /issues/new

## Define a Message Pattern ##

As message patterns are an advanced feature of Smuxi they are only exposed using
the the internal settings interface, which is the /config command.

First you need to create/assign a new ID for your pattern, you can search for
existing IDs using this command:

    /config get MessagePatterns

Now pick an unused number from that output. The pattern ID is the number after
*MessagePatterns/*.

Decide which pattern you want to match for. This has to be a valid regex
(regular expression). If you do not know what a regex is, you will have to ask
someone or learn regex. [This][regexpal] a useful website to create and test
your regex before you add it to Smuxi. Now you can add that regex with the free
ID obtained from above like this:

    /config set MessagePatterns/0/MessagePartPattern=#([0-9]+)

0 is the free ID, which is the first one you can see when there are no patterns
yet.

MessagePartPattern is your regex: #([0-9]+) which will match text of any number
with any length that start with a #. This is typically used for bug report
numbers.

Next we need to tell what do we want to do with that matched text, typically we
want to convert it into a link thus we set:

    /config set MessagePatterns/0/MessagePartType=url

**Important**: you _have_ to use _0_ as ID here again, because MessagePartType
is a parameter for the same message pattern as above!

So we told it to match #([0-9]+) and convert that into a link, but to where?
This is done using LinkFormat like this:

    /config set MessagePatterns/1/LinkFormat=https://www.smuxi.org/issues/show/{1}

Any valid URI would work in LinkFormat, but you need to pass the captured value
from the regex, which is the number in this case (0-9 after the #). {0} is the
matched text, {1} the captured value inside the ()s.

Now you should be able to send or receive a message containing #1234 for example
and it should convert into a link for you. To make this change _persistent_ you
*must* save it using this command:

    /config save

If you restart Smuxi now it will still remember your added pattern. Have fun!

  [regexpal]: http://regexpal.com/

## Examples ##

### Bug Report / Ticket Numbers ###

To turn #XXXX into a link for yor favorite bug tracker you could do that like
this:

    /config set MessagePatterns/0/MessagePartPattern=#([0-9]+)
    /config set MessagePatterns/0/MessagePartType=url
    /config set MessagePatterns/0/LinkFormat=https://www.smuxi.org/issues/show/{1}
    /config save

### Examples in Smuxi ###

You can find many examples in Smuxi's source code [here][].

  [here]: https://github.com/meebey/smuxi/blob/d48c9bcdeb06868d883e177738db64d4ceb6726d/src/Engine/Config/MessageBuilderSettings.cs#L120

