[[!meta title="Server - Smuxi"]]

# Smuxi Server #

The Smuxi server (smuxi-server.exe) is a remote engine for a Smuxi frontend.
Multiple Smuxi frontends can connect and be kept in sync, and when none are
connected, keeps track and stays connected to chat services.

First connect or go to the system/server were you want to run the
*smuxi-server*. It should be a system that is always connected to the internet
and is never powered off. Usually SSH (or VNC for Windows) or your feet will do
this job for you.

## Configure smuxi-server ##

Before you can start and use the *smuxi-server* you need to configure a
username and password. This is the only way the smuxi-server can tell that you
are allowed to use this smuxi-server so pick something nobody else knows. The
username is *not* seen anywhere outside of the smuxi-server itself, it has
nothing to do with the IRC nickname or whatever.

To add the user and set the password run the following command from a shell/cmd
and replace $myuser and $mypassword with appropriate values:

    smuxi-server --add-user --username=$myuser --password=$mypassword

The smuxi-server should confirm the successful creation like this:

    User "$myuser" successfully added to server.

If you need to make changes later to that username or password, make sure the
smuxi-server is **not** running at that time. Otherwise the changes will be lost
when the running smuxi-server instance stops!

Now you can go ahead and start your smuxi-server.

## Start/Stop smuxi-server ##

Starting the smuxi-server is very simple, just run this command in a shell/cmd:

    smuxi-server

If you want the smuxi-server to automatically start in the background when your
system boots, continue reading the following sections. This is highly dependent of your
operating system as each system provides its own way to auto start services.


To gracefully stop the running smuxi-server you can use a connected Smuxi
frontend and simply issue the */shutdown* command.

If you don't have a frontend handy right now, you can kill the smuxi-server
process using kill on \*nix , the Task Manager on Windows and the like.

### Debian ###

### Ubuntu ###

### Other Linux ###

To always start the *smuxi-server* automatically when the Linux server
boots, add this to your /etc/rc.local file:

    sudo -u your_linux_user bash -c 'nohup smuxi-server > $HOME/smuxi-server.log &'

### Mac OS X ###

### Windows ###

There are a number of ways to configure Smuxi-server to run at startup on
Windows.  For instance, you could simply add a shortcut to _C:\Program Files
(x86)\Smuxi\smuxi-server.exe_ to your Startup directory.  However, this is less
than ideal because it leaves  blank command-line window open on your desktop as
long as the server is running.  The best way to avoid this is to set up Smuxi to
run as a Windows service.

Unfortunately, Microsoft does not provide a bult-in way to turn any executable
into a Windows service.  To get around this, you must use a separate program
such as [NSSM](www.nssm.cc) to turn a non-service executable into a service.
This guide assumes you will be using NSSM, but there are other options
available.

Before configuring Smuxi-server to run as a service, you should configure the
server with whatever users you want, as described above.

Configuring Smuxi-server to run as a Windows service using NSSM:

  * Download NSSM from the [NSSM download page](http://www.nssm.cc/download).
  * Extract the appropriate executable for your version of Windows (i.e. 32 or
    64-bit) to somewhere you'll be able to find it, such as Desktop.
  * Open a command prompt and navigate to the directory to which you extracted
    the NSSM executable (e.g. _%USERPROFILE%\Desktop_)
  * Type `nssm install "Smuxi Engine"`.  You may see a prompt asking you whether
    you want to allow the program to make changes to your computer.  If you do, click Yes.
  * The NSSM installation window wil open.  There are several options you must
    specify: 
    * In the **Application** tab, enter the path to `smuxi-server.exe` in the
      *Path* field.  By default, this is _C:\Program Files\Smuxi\smuxi-server.exe_
      (on a 32-bit system) or _C:\Program Files (x86)\Smuxi\smuxi-server.exe_
      (on a 64-bit system.)  Leave the Arguments field blank.
    * In the **Details** tab, enter a name for the service (such as "Smuxi
      Engine") and description in the *Display name* and *Description* fields.
      Make sure the startup type is set to Automatic.
    * In the **Log on** tab, choose *This account* and enter your Windows
      username and password in the appropriate fields.
  * Click "Install Service."  You will get a pop-up informing you that the
    service installed correctly.
  * Open the Windows service manager.  On Windows Vista and later, this can be
    found by searching "Services" in the Start menu.
  * Scroll down to "Smuxi Engine" (or whatever you entered in the *Display name*
    field).  Select it and click Start.

Congratulations!  Smuxi is now configured to run silently, in the background,
when you start Windows.  If you ever whish to stop the Smuxi engine (to add more
users, for instance) you can do so from the same Windows services manager you
started it from.

## Connect frontend to smuxi-server ##

Tell the frontend to connect to the remote engine by using "Engine -> Add Remote
Engine" from the frontend's menu. After that quit the frontend and it should ask
you if you want to start a <Local Engine> or connect to the newly added remote
one.
