[[!meta title="Tor - Smuxi"]]

How To Use Smuxi with Tor
=========================

## Install latest Smuxi ##

Starting with version 1.0.1 Smuxi supports Tor using the SOCKS 5 proxy feature.
Versions before 1.0.1 will *not* work with Tor, so check your version from the
menu: Help -> About. Engine must say 1.0.1 or later.

## Install Tor ##

First you need to install Tor on your computer where you have also Smuxi
installed. You can obtain the Tor Browser which includes the Tor daemon for
Windows and Linux from [here][tor-browser].

On Debian and Ubuntu based systems it is just a matter of running this command:

    sudo apt-get install tor
 
  [tor-browser]: https://www.torproject.org/download/download-easy.html.en

## Configure Smuxi ##

Now that Tor is installed and running you need to tell Smuxi that network
connections should be done through Tor. This is very critical, else Smuxi will
keep using your regular network connection.

Start Smuxi, go to _Preferences_ -> _Interface_ then under _Advanced_ enable
_Show Advanced Settings_. Now in _Connection_ you will see _Network Proxy_, this
is where Tor needs to be configured as shown:

Type: SOCKS 5
Host: 127.0.0.1
Port: 9150

If port 9150 does not work, the default port of the Tor daemon is 9050 and the
default port of the Tor Browser is 9050. The Tor Browser has to be open and
running.

Leave _Username_ and _Password_ empty, they are not needed.

After that confirm the changes using the _OK_ button and restart Smuxi to take
full effect of the changes.

## Test the Connection ##

After restarting Smuxi, a connection test should be done to make sure
connections are really going through Tor. Simply connect to an pre-configured
IRC network like OFTC and make a /whois lookup on your own nickname. If the
connection went through Tor then it should look like this:

    -!- meebey7 [~smuxi@5P6AABTWT.tor-irc.dnsbl.oftc.net]
    -!-  realname: http://www.smuxi.org/
    -!-  channels: #smuxi
    -!-  server: weber.oftc.net [Newark, NJ, USA]
    [338 (?) meebey7 255.255.255.255] actually using host
    -!-  End of /WHOIS list.

The first line shows your nickname (meebey7), username (~smuxi) and your
IP/host which should now be not your real IP but something with tor.

If you can't connect then either the Tor daemon is not running or the IRC
network blocks Tor. Freenode for example requires a registered account for Tor
users, and SASL support which Smuxi does not support yet.
